---
title: Exit Ticket
url: "docs/exit-ticket"
description: Considering|Calculating Data.
weight: 4
---

December 1 - December 5

- Week 12: Dec 1 - Dec 5 **Submit Exit Ticket**

You will produce an 'exit ticket' for me at the end of the course (open format) reflecting on where you started and where you've gotten to, and you will indicate how you feel you've done against the learning outcomes. You are **required** to explicitly tie your exit ticket to evidence collected in your weekly work. The exit ticket is a summary assessment exercise that will pull all the different strings together into a strong cord. **Everyone's journey is different**. Digital methods are more a matter of practice and time than they are of aptitude.

If you've never done digital work before, it might be that you never quite manage to get as many of the tech things working as you might've wanted: but you now know _what you didn't know before_. That's a win. You might be a computer science minor and the tech materials don't present you with much challenge: but figuring out how to tell the compelling story was very difficult for you _but you're better at it now_. Your 'exit ticket' will explain to me your particular context, and it will point to the evidence that demonstrates how you've moved along from where you were at the beginning to where you are now.

If I agree with your assessment, then that is the grade you will receive (thus, you have the opportunity to override the percentage breakdowns below).

**When I have disagreed in previous courses** this has been, 9.5 times out of 10, to _raise_ the grade: y'all are too hard on yourselves. If I have disagreed and felt that you've overstated things - if you were the 0.5 out of 10 - I would explain this to you and grade accordingly.

The Exit Ticket should be submitted within one week of the last day of the fall term.