---
title: Week 12 Consolidation III
url: "docs/module-3/wk12"
description: Consolidation III
aliases:
- "/docs/wk12"
tags: ["weekly work", "week 12", "consolidation", "assessment"]
---

+ [Goals](#goals)
+ [Do](#do)
+ [Report Back](#report)
+ [A Choice](#choice)


### Goals for this week
<a name="goals"></a>

- Pick the most impressive thing you've done so far in this course (any week) and do it over but explain what's different this time. Reflect on the different between reproducing something and replicating something. How is 'replication' a critical feature of digital archaeology, and how does that tie into the different audiences we write for? How has your thinking evolved since the end of Module 2? Are there new dilemmas that have emerged?

Demonstrate that you have integrated my feedback on your earlier work or any feedback you have received from your peers.

Upload your consolidation document to your github repository.

### Log Your Work
<a name="report"></a>

You can log the link to your repository [in this form](https://forms.gle/XLpFTRXxknJ4RSbS7)

## A Choice re Consolidation III and the Exit Ticket
<a name="choice"></a>

Recognizing the grind that we are all in as the term winds down, and knowing that you picked an online asynchronous class for reasons beyond your desire to stare at a computer screen for hours a week, I’ve decided that we can afford a choice as we hurtle towards the end of term.

There are two graded assignments left - consolidation doc III and the exit ticket. Of these, the exit ticket is imagined as a kind of consolidation of the consolidations, and a chance for you to argue for a final grade if you so desire to do (perhaps sickness or other issues meant that your earlier work doesn’t accurately reflect what you’ve learned, etc). Those two documents are each worth 25% of your final grade. That's a lot.

Here’s what I’m thinking:

**Option A**: you complete the consolidation doc III AND the Exit Ticket as laid out in the syllabus. 25% and 25%. Consolidation doc III is due at the end of week 12; the exit ticket will be due at the end of the following week.

**Option B**: you complete **JUST** the consolidation doc III addressing the prompts as fully and explicitly as you can **BUT** you add a short section discussing the overall evolution of your thought in the course (with explicit reference to your earlier work, links, and citations to readings as appropriate). If you choose this option, the weightings of your three consolidation documents will be **33 1/3%** each, and the ability to argue for your own overall grade in the course will be **off** the table. I will accept Option B work as late as December 19.

**You will indicate which option you are pursuing with a statement in the first line of Consolidation Doc III**. If you don't mention it at all, I will assume the default (Option A).
