---
title: Week 3 Field work and ethical data collection II
url: "docs/module-1/wk3"
description: Field work and ethical data collection II
aliases:
- "/docs/wk3"
tags: ["weekly work", "week 3", "field work", "graveyard", "webmap"]
---

+ [Goals](#goals)
+ [Listen](#listen)
+ [Read](#read)
+ [Do](#do)
+ [Reflect](#reflect)
+ [Report Back](#report)


### Goals for this week
<a name="goals"></a>

- Continue the Graveyard Project and reconsider our recording system
- Obtain data for the eventual creation of 3d models of grave stones
- Develop a webmap of the site
- Explore the connections between what you are doing and what you are reading: graveyards are emotional spaces

### Listen
<a name="listen"></a>

<audio controls>
  <source src="../../audio/003_hist3000_data-recording-Bill-Caraher.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

Right-click and save-as [this link to download the audio file](../../audio/003_hist3000_data-recording-Bill-Caraher.mp3)

I talk in this old episode about photogrammetry; don't worry, we'll build the models later.

### Do
<a name="do"></a>

_I do not necessarily expect you to complete all of these, because you are all coming to this class with different levels of digital ability. These are listed in order of difficulty. Push yourself until you get stumped._

- Continue to record the gravestones (and take photos/videos for eventual 3d model making, [see this quick note](../../materials/wk3-sfm-1).)
- Re-consider our Recording System ([instructions here](../../materials/wk3-kobotoolbox))
- [Create a webmap](../../materials/wk3-webmaps) showing the location of the graveyard and its stones.
- [Go further with a gentle introduction to Spatial Archaeology](../../materials/wk3-spatial-archae)

There's a difference between webmapping and spatial analysis. The former is more of a story-telling tool, while the latter uses tools like geographic information systems to analyse patterns over space (and through time).

{{% admonition type=info %}} With tech work, if it doesn't come together in about 30 minutes, it won't come in an hour. So take a break. Close the laptop. Call somebody up for help. Find another pair of eyes to look at the problem. I don't want to hear that you laboured heroically for 3 hours to do something. Jump into our social space and ask for advice.
{{% /admonition %}}

### Read
<a name="read"></a>

+ Cook, Katherine. 2018 Negotiating Memory: Funerary Commemoration as Social Change in Barbados. African and Black Diaspora: An International Journal. [link](/docs/support/cook2018.pdf)
+ Pillatt, Toby. et al. 2020 The Burial Space Research Database (Data Paper), Internet Archaeology 55. [link](https://doi.org/10.11141/ia.55.3)
+ Baxter, Jane Eva. 2020. Emotional Practice and Emotional Archaeology- A Perspective from the Archaeology of Childhood in Kisha Supernant, Jane Eva Baxter, Natasha Lyons, Sonya Atalay (eds). Archaeologies of the Heart, Springer, Cham. [link](/docs/support/Baxter_chp_Archaeologies_of_the_Heart.pdf)

**Annotate** anything interesting you find with Hypothes.is while logged into our reading group, keeping in mind what you've already heard/read.

A good annotation draws connections between what you've read and other things you've read/heard/experienced. I explicitly encourage you to connect what you read in this class with what you're reading/doing in other classes. Also add anything you read or anything interesting you find to your Zotero library.

### Record and Reflect
<a name="reflect"></a>

Your github repository is where you will deposit all of the artefacts you make for this course, including your reflections. Depositing everything you make gives me a vision of your process and learning, so I encourage you to be expansive.

**Make sure to 'invite user shawngraham'** to your repository so that I may view it. 

1. As you did for week one, make another notes.md entry and put it in your github repository for week 3.

2. In your reflective journal (journal-week-3.md), drawing on your annotations of what you've read, your notes from what you've listened to, and the work you've done (both the successes and the not-quite-successes) discuss your observations about the graveyard you are working on. Are there differences in who gets commemorated, and how? In what ways does the coding scheme from debs.ac.uk miss, elide, or highlight memorialization practice in Canadian graveyards? In what ways does mapping the graveyard give you authority and power? Were there aspects of the work that affected you emotionally? Why? How might your story about the graveyard differ from someone else's? Begin the reflection by quoting (w/ citation) one sentence from the readings that resonates with you. You might select something that is personally meaningful, or leaves you confused, or makes you happy, or intrigues you to know more... etc. Point to evidence in your log that underpins your reflection. Put your journal entry in your repo.

### Log Your Work
<a name="report"></a>

You can log the link to your repository [in this form](https://forms.gle/XLpFTRXxknJ4RSbS7)