---
title: Week 4 Consolidation I
url: "docs/module-1/wk4"
description: Consolidation I
aliases:
- "/docs/wk4"
tags: ["weekly work", "week 4", "consolidation", "assessment"]
---

+ [Goals](#goals)
+ [Do](#do)
+ [Report Back](#report)


### Goals for this week
<a name="goals"></a>

- Use this time to catch up on anything you didn't read, to try some of the exercises over again, and to consolidate what you've achieved so far.

### Do
<a name="do"></a>

You may make your repository private **or** public.

If you make it private, **Make sure to 'invite user shawngraham'** to your repository so that I may view it.

- Create a short consolidation document that reflects on this first module and your growth (one or two pages is fine). Feel free to build it from what you've already written in your logs - wikilink your notes to it, or embed materials, etc. 

Discuss _at least_ one 'fail' and one 'win'. Explicitly situate your discussion with reference to the readings, and to the annotations by the class as a whole (ie, cite and engage with). What has been most challenging for you so far, and why is that? What are the implications for 'doing' digital archaeology? What are some of the ethical dimensions to the work you've encountered so far? Integrate my feedback on your earlier work (ie, show how you've responded to it; if you've not logged any work so far, why not?) or any feedback you have received from your peers, summarizing the work you have done to date. Keep in mind the assessment rubric for the course and the learning outcomes I am looking for.

- Upload this to your github repository. If you reference another .md or .ipynb file in your consolidation document, make sure to upload those files too so I have the context.

### Log Your Work
<a name="report"></a>

You can log the link to your repository [in this form](https://forms.gle/XLpFTRXxknJ4RSbS7)