---
title: Week 6 Networks and Simulations
url: "docs/module-2/wk6"
description: On Networks and Simulations
aliases:
- "/docs/wk6"
tags: ["weekly work", "week 6", "network analysis", "emergence", "enchantment", "simulation"]
---

+ [Goals](#goals)
+ [Listen](#listen)
+ [Read](#read)
+ [Do](#do)
+ [Reflect](#reflect)
+ [Report Back](#report)

{{% admonition type=info %}} In the podcast episode, I talk about what it is I find 'enchanting' about digital archaeology. A lot of that concerns the idea of 'emergence', that if things are connected together _like this_ then interesting unpredictable things might emerge at a higher level of complexity. Therefore, we'll spend time with networks: first to represent archaeological data, and then as a substrate for computing archaeological data. 
{{% /admonition %}}

### Goals for this week
<a name="goals"></a>

- Try your hand at network analysis
- Simulate the Roman economy
- Situate this work in an understanding of the complementary nature of these approaches and what they offer to archaeologists and potentially, a broader public


### Listen
<a name="listen"></a>

<audio controls>
  <source src="../../audio/006_hist3000_future-archaeologies-Romanowska.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

Right-click and save-as [this link to download the audio file](../../audio/0006_hist3000_future-archaeologies-Romanowska.mp3)


...Incidentally, by the time you listen to this, I will have *finally* published a book with 'Practical Necromancy' in the title...!


### Read
<a name="read"></a>

+ Brughmans, Tom. 2010. "Connecting the dots: Towards archaeological network analysis" _Oxford Journal of Archaeology_, 29:3, 277–303, https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-0092.2010.00349.x. Available through [our library proxy](https://journals-scholarsportal-info.proxy.library.carleton.ca/details/02625253/v29i0003/277_ctdtana.xml)
+ Mills, Barbara. 2017. "Social Network Analysis in Archaeology". _Annual Review of Anthropology_ 46:379-397. https://www.annualreviews.org/docserver/fulltext/anthro/46/1/annurev-anthro-102116-041423.pdf?expires=1752075004&id=id&accname=guest&checksum=9CB9F30B21C6A2BA1F9243F7947ECB4D
+ Romanowska, I., Crabtree, S. A., Harris, K. and Davies, B. 2019: Agent-Based Modeling for Archaeologists: Part 1 of 3. Advances in Archaeological Practice 7 (2). 178–84. [link](https://osf.io/preprints/socarxiv/3gwdn/) (This also comes with a tutorial for the Netlogo language; feel free to read that too if you want)
+ Graham S, Yates D, El-Roby A, Brousseau C, Ellens J, McDermott C. Relationship Prediction in a Knowledge Graph Embedding Model of the Illicit Antiquities Trade. Advances in Archaeological Practice. 2023;11(2):126-138. [doi:10.1017/aap.2023.1](https://www-cambridge-org.proxy.library.carleton.ca/core/journals/advances-in-archaeological-practice/article/relationship-prediction-in-a-knowledge-graph-embedding-model-of-the-illicit-antiquities-trade/9B802F4BEFEA325D3221E39BCE4F3A63)


### Do
<a name="do"></a>

- Meaning is a function of relationships. Try your hand at archaeological [network analysis](../../materials/wk6-networks)
- Then we'll build on top of that by creating agents - simulated Romans - on top of that network in an [agent based simulation](../../materials/wk6-abm).

### Record and Reflect
<a name="reflect"></a>

Your github repository is where you will deposit all of the artefacts you make for this course, including your reflections. Depositing everything you make gives me a vision of your process and learning, so I encourage you to be expansive.

**Make sure to 'invite user shawngraham'** to your repository so that I may view it. 

1. As you did for week one, make another notes.md entry and put it in your github repository for week 6.

2. In your reflective journal, drawing on your annotations of what you've read, your notes from what you've listened to, and the work you've done (both the successes and the not-quite-successes) discuss these ideas of simulation this week raises. You might want to consider the perils of looking at the world through a network lens - and the potentials. Have you encountered this kind of approach in your history classes? What would your other professors make of all this? Begin the reflection by quoting (w/ citation) one sentence from the readings that resonates with you. You might select something that is personally meaningful, or leaves you confused, or makes you happy, or intrigues you to know more... etc. Point to evidence in your log that underpins your reflection. Put your journal entry in your repo.

### Log Your Work
<a name="report"></a>

You can log the link to your repository [in this form](https://forms.gle/XLpFTRXxknJ4RSbS7)