---
title: Week 7 Machine Learning (or 'AI', if we must)
url: "docs/module-2/wk7"
description: On Machine Learning
aliases:
- "/docs/wk7"
tags: ["weekly work", "week 7", "ai", "llm"]
---

+ [Goals](#goals)
+ [Listen](#listen)
+ [Read](#read)
+ [Do](#do)
+ [Reflect](#reflect)
+ [Report Back](#report)

### Goals for this week
<a name="goals"></a>

Carrying on from our theme last week, we'll explore two more methods that are predicated on using networks as a tool for computation. These kinds of neural network approaches can lead to what I think constitutes 'an enchantment of digital archaeology', but there is disquiet out there too... then in the main reading we take digital archaeology into outer space.


### Listen
<a name="listen"></a>

Let's change things up with a video this week; this is me talking about the history of generative ai and some of the things I'm thinking about.

<iframe title="vimeo-player" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1035806713?h=03d580fcf2" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0"    allowfullscreen></iframe>

That's a longish video (about 40 minutes); play it at double-speed if you want.

### Read
<a name="read"></a>

+ Perry S. The Enchantment of the Archaeological Record. European Journal of Archaeology. 2019;22(3):354-371. doi:10.1017/eaa.2019.24 [link](https://www-cambridge-org.proxy.library.carleton.ca/core/journals/european-journal-of-archaeology/article/enchantment-of-the-archaeological-record/6B71DCDB28D3FABE22660EEA860ED7FE#)
+ Walsh, Justin, Shawn Graham, Alice C. Gorman, Chantal Brousseau, Salma Abdullah. 2024. Archaeology in space: The Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE) on the International Space Station. Report 1: Squares 03 and 05. _PLOS One_ 
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0304229 [link](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0304229).

Then select ONE of:

+ Morgan, Colleen. 2019. 'Avatars, Monsters, and Machines: A Cyborg Archaeology'. _European Journal of Archaeology_ 22.3, 324-337 [link](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/european-journal-of-archaeology/article/avatars-monsters-and-machines-a-cyborg-archaeology/CD467A5E5232B50D6CAA4D72091FCFA9/core-reader)
+ Kersel, Morag. 2016. ‘Living a Semi-digital Kinda Life’ in Erin Walcek Averett, Jody Michael Gordon, and Derek B. Counts (eds) _Mobilizing the Past for a Digital Future: The Potential of Digital Archaeology_. Grand Forks: The Digital Press at the University of North Dakota. pp. 475-492. [link](https://digitalpressatund.files.wordpress.com/2016/09/5_1_kersel.pdf)
+ Huggett, J. (2022). 'Is Less More? Slow Data and Datafication in Archaeology'. In K. Garstki (Ed.), _Critical Archaeology in the Digital Age_. UCLA Cotsen Institute of Archaeology Press. pp. 97–110. https://escholarship.org/uc/item/0vh9t9jq#page=112 (scroll to chapter 6 if that link doesn't quite take you there)

### Do
<a name="do"></a>

- Build an [image classifier ](../../materials/wk7-images)
- Resurrect the [ghost of Flinders' Petrie.... kinda](../../materials/wk7-generative-ai)
- Talk with [your Harris Matrix Data](../../materials/wk7-rag)

### Record and Reflect
<a name="reflect"></a>

Your github repository is where you will deposit all of the artefacts you make for this course, including your reflections. Depositing everything you make gives me a vision of your process and learning, so I encourage you to be expansive.

**Make sure to 'invite user shawngraham'** to your repository so that I may view it. 

1. As you did for week one, make another notes.md entry and put it in your github repository for week 7.

2. In your reflective journal, drawing on your annotations of what you've read, your notes from what you've listened to, and the work you've done (both the successes and the not-quite-successes) discuss these applications of neural networks. Think about the ethical issues that these approaches might raise, the questions of labour. Think about the friction you encounter using these. Begin the reflection by quoting (w/ citation) one sentence from the readings that resonates with you. You might select something that is personally meaningful, or leaves you confused, or makes you happy, or intrigues you to know more... explain. Point to evidence in your log that underpins your reflection. Put your journal entry in your repo.


### Log Your Work
<a name="report"></a>

You can log the link to your repository [in this form](https://forms.gle/XLpFTRXxknJ4RSbS7)