---
title: Week 8 Consolidation II
url: "docs/module-2/wk8"
description: Consolidation II
aliases:
- "/docs/wk8"
tags: ["weekly work", "week 8", "consolidation", "assessment"]
---

+ [Goals](#goals)
+ [Do](#do)
+ [Report Back](#report)


### Goals for this week
<a name="goals"></a>

- Use this time to catch up on anything you didn't read, to try some of the exercises over again, and to consolidate what you've achieved so far.

### Do
<a name="do"></a>

You may make your repository private **or** public.

If you make it private, **Make sure to 'invite user shawngraham'** to your repository so that I may view it.

- Create a short consolidation document that reflects on this second module and your growth (one or two pages is fine). Feel free to build it from what you've already written in your logs - wikilink your notes to it, or embed materials, etc. 

Discuss at least one ‘fail’ and one ‘win’. Explicitly situate your discussion with reference to the readings and annotations by the class as a whole. What has been most challenging for you so far, and why is that? This module has been about ‘Considering|Calculating Data', where we have tried to both find the patterns in data but also think about the ways we collect that data impact the kinds of patterns we might see. Integrate my feedback on your earlier work (ie, show how you've responded to it; if you've not logged any work so far, why not?) or any feedback you have received from your peers, summarizing the work you have done to date. Keep in mind the assessment rubric for the course and the learning outcomes I am looking for.

- Upload this to your github repository. If you reference another .md or .ipynb file in your consolidation document, make sure to upload those files too so I have the context.

### Log Your Work
<a name="report"></a>

You can log the link to your repository [in this form](https://forms.gle/XLpFTRXxknJ4RSbS7)